So, when we talk about this types,
what we mean is the type of this
within a function when it's invoked.
And this has the most relevance when
talking about freestanding functions
because methods on classes,
they kind of already have this
wired up in a convenient way.
Here is example of what we
might care about this, so
a button or a DOM element of any kind.
If we wire up a handler,
like a click handler of some sort,
when the buttons clicked,
this function will be invoked and
this within the function will be
whichever DOM element emitted the event.
So, if we tried to operate on that,
we would kinda be
busted on it because what
we're being told here is look,
I don't know that you wired up my
click handler to a Dom element.
Like you could be using it that way or
a different way, but
you can't start consuming this,
unless you tell me what it should be,
so I can help you stay on the tracks,
right?
And use it responsibly, so
in this case, we happen to be fine,
because we have no opinion about this,
right?
We can directly invoke it takes
the argument as it should, but
it's the use of this that's kind of
causing an error message to pop up.
So what we need to do is define
what's called a this type and
it's sort of just an argument
that's passed behind the scenes,
which makes sense to me
because that's kind of,
when you think about how function apply,
function call works, right?
We pass this along with
the arguments there,
it's part of the information that goes to
the function when we want to invoke it,
so it kind of makes sense that it's
included alongside the arguments.
And now we can see that we're fine and,
in fact,
that's the type of this it's
an HTML button element.
And down here now we're busted on that,
because the only safe way of
invoking this click handler
It would be either using
function call like that, or
creating a bound version of the function.
And if we look at this bound handler,
it may not show it on the tooltip, no,
it does show it on the tooltip, so
now notice that my click handler
has this HTML button element.
While the act of binding this,
it means that we're creating
a new function that doesn't care
about which this, is being used
because we're baking the right context
into that function that bind returns.
So it makes sense that this bound handler,
you can just pass it in an event,
because it's already got the right this.
If anyone here have seen this pattern
before, where you're doing function bind,
to hook things up to DOM elements,
maybe in a react component, right?
This is kind of a common way of like
you pull methods off of your class and
you say this dot action equals
this dot action dot bind, so
there you go, this is the kind of
thing we're talking about here.
And bind call and apply, at least for
modern versions of TypeScript,
should work very very nicely with
the concept we just talked about.
So, let's end our section on functions
by talking about best practices,
I already asked you to
explicitly define return types.
So, here's an example of a piece of code,
where if we made what appears
to be an innocent change, so
you see here we're fetching some data and
then if the promise resolves,
we'd like to log it to the console.
What if over here,
when we decode the body of our response,
we start to only do that for
successful responses only, right?
We add a guard around it.
Errors would start to pop up,
where we consume the result that
the promise resolves to, right?
You start to see these
errors where they break as
opposed to where you need to fix it,
right?
This is the change, right?
Get data now has the possibility
of returning undefined,
you can see it right in the tooltip or
promise that resolves to undefined.
I'd like my errors to pop up
closer to where I must fix them,
we did talk about that a little bit.
And so, this is what you would see if
we had this explicit return type and
this error right on the function, and
it's really clear how we can address it.